we have learned how to find the index of peak
element in mmountain array
In the previous problem let us use the same logic
and find the index of peak element first
Now let it's built a logic for searching for a
particular element in Mountain array
The elements will be in ascending order from starting index
to the peak index and will be in descending order
from the peak index till the last index so let us
first to a binary search from index
Zero to peak index If the element is found we
can return it's index else
We have to do a search in the descending portion
We'll see how this works
Let this point start to zero and end to peak
index two and do a binary search Mid is one arr
of mid is 21 here it is greater than 17
Thus we will move end to mid minus one
Now start and end both points to 0 Hence mid will
also point to 0 array of mid is 15 and it is
less than 17
So we will move start to mid plus one that
is to 1 start has become greater than end
Thus the elements 70 is not present in the first
half
That is the ascending portion
Now let a search the descending portion point start to
peak elements next index that is three and end to six
mid
will be three plus six divided by two which is
equal to four array of mid equal to 26 and
26 is greater than 17
So what should we do In the case of this
sorted array we will mark the end to mid minus
one and continue the search in the first half
But here we're going to do the exact opposite
This portion is in descending order which means elements 17
can only be present in the second half from mid
to end
So marked the start to mid plus one and in
case if the mid element is less than 17 we
would mark the end to mid minus and continue
the search in the first half
Coming back to the next iteration
The start is five and end is six
Thus mid is five
In array of mid we have a search element 17 thus we can return this index 5.